# Team-Lyrical
Code Development for Lyrical Team Project

MetroLyrics_Web_Crawler_v6 developed by Brandon Nipper for the Capstone Project

1.  Code is designed to break up the tasks of data acquistion among 5 team members.
2.  URLs are organized by letter of the alphabet.
3.  Approach of team members is to comment out letters except the one working on and run the code.
4.  Output is a csv file with the data of the bands beginning with the letter run.
5.  Bands beginning with numeric characters were run in a early version of the code and the csv for bands beginning with numbers were captured first (e.g., 38 Special, 10CC, ...)

Lyric data cleaning and assessment program descriptions:

CleanCSV_v2: Review the input CSV music files generated by 
             MetroLyrics_Web_Crawler and perform the following tasks:
1. Remove blank lyric records, including Artist, Genre, Band Popularity, Song,
     Year, Song Popularity, and Lyrics fields
2. Remove lyrics containing non-ASCII (printable, utf-8) record fields
3. Remove non-English rows using langdetect 1.0.7 
    (https://pypi.org/project/langdetect/), pip install langdetect
4. Remove any remaining punctuation
5. In song name, last word always is “Lyrics”, remove it
6. Remove instrumentals by searching for "instrumental" or "lyrics" strings
7. Strip multiple commas from song titles
8. Remove duplicated records
9. Not done in this function: Remove stop words
NOTE: Before running script, install langdetect using pip:
         pip install langdetect

FindDupsCSV: Review the input CSV music files processed by CleanCSV and 
             perform the following tasks:
1. Read in cleaned (2) files row-by-row into a list.
2. Call FindDup to check for duplicate lyrics AND matching group names. 
   If found return True, otherwise return False.
3. IF True returned, write row list to DupCSVList
4. If False returned, write row list to outputCSV_list
5. When finished reading all rows from input file, write outputCSV_list to 
   <inputfilename>(3).csv
6. Write duplicate rows in DupCSVList to <inputfilename>(3-Dups).csv
7. Output record counts saved and duplicated to the console

CalcCSVTotals: Generate the following statistics using the metadata associated with each lyric record read from file from file InputCSVs.txt for all cleaned CSV files A(2).csv to Z(2).csv and Numbers(20).csv.
SongYearDict contains the number of songs for each year.
artistDict contains the number of songs by artist.
genreDict contains the number of songs by genre.
Note: Prototype version to be used in the Spyder IDE to access and display the
the following dictionaries. Have not yet generated useful console or file output.
